Welcome back when it comes to lay out using CSX a very important skill of a developer there are probably
three really good ways to do it this year.
One is something that we've discussed and that is flex.
Another one was Booth's shop four and we're going to learn about a new way of doing it which is called
CSSA grid and if you go for a google image search and type in something like CSX flex box versus grid
you're going to get a lot of images explaining what the differences are why you use one over the other.
But I want to just press face the next couple of videos and let you know that there's no one versus
the other one that wins out over the other.
There's always a tradeoff.
And the best way to think about these tools is as complimentary tools that is the both work really really
well together.
You don't only have to use just fluxbox or just see a set script ideally use them both together and
I'll show you later on how we can use both fluxbox and CSSA grid to pretty much do anything we want.
When it comes to layout but just to start us off a good way to think about fluxbox versus see SS grid
is that Fluxbox is really good to use if you just have one demential.
Maybe you're only thinking about columns and how to do layout based on columns.
Says grids are really really powerful especially when it comes to two dimensional layouts that is both
columns and rows.
So it's really really good at let's say image galleries or listing out your portfolio projects on your
own personal web page and we'll get into that.
But now you might be asking yourself OK isn't this what bootstrap allows us to do.
And you'd be right.
Bootstrap came at a time when we didn't have flex Xbox and CSSA grit.
It came at a time when we just had display and floats and positioning CSSA properties that as we saw
are really really difficult to use when it comes to layouts and bootstrap solved that problem.
It gave us this grid system that we can use within bootstrap to make really beautiful layouts.
So that was really really useful.
But on your resume if you say that you know bootstrapped for yeah that's good but it won't be that impressive
to employers any more especially if you're going for a real developer job which is why I haven't focused
too much on bootstrap it because I argue that everything they can do and bootstrap for although sometimes
it's easy because it comes with their own pre-built components you can do now using flex blocks and
see a set script and because being a good developer means not just learning one library that always
changes always evolves.
It's learning the fundamentals.
It's more important for us to learn fluxbox and CSSA grid because now if we know these two we can create
any sort of layout we want.
One last thing when it comes to CSSA grid it's a new feature.
Most web browsers have support for it but we do see a few reds and older versions of browsers that do
not support CSSA grid.
When we look at flex box it's a little bit better because it's older than CSSA script and we've learned
all about this before right.
Each browser has their own implementation and any new feature has to be implemented individually.
So although US grid has become pretty standard across the web if you're trying to support older browsers
or something like Opera Mini then you might want to consider using floats to do layout.
Although to be honest most of the voice AB is moving toward CSSA grid and fluxbox.
So I just recommend starting to use this right away because eventually this will have really really
good support but enough talk.
I think it's time for us to learn CSSA grid's to see what all the hype is about and start working on
a fun little project.
I'll see in the next one but by.